---
layout: blog_single
title: The MTA’s Dumb Decision
category: blog
permalink: /blog/the_mtas_dumb_decision1
shortUrl: http://jpcody.in/9
---
<p>I hail from near Atlanta, with its bastard-child MARTA. I've spent a summer in Los Angeles, the paragon of terrible public transportation. I feel I have the experience necessary to say that New York's public transportation system is absolutely incredible.</p>
<p>My wife and I, when we were dating, had the benefit of being the progeny or Delta employees, so skipping school looked like this from time-to-time: We would wake up before the sun to head to the airport. We'd catch the first flight of the day to New York City. Upon arrival, we'd hope the bus to the north end of Manhattan, then take the subway to the heart of the city. After exploring the city all day, we'd reverse our route and catch the last flight home that night. And it was all made possible by a well-thought and well-designed transit system.</p>
<p>It looks like that's about <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/06/24/nyregion/24naming.html">to get more difficult</a> as the MTA tries to sell the naming rights to the Atlantic Avenue station to Barclays of London.</p>
<p>Some corporate entities already have stops named after them, but Jason Kottke, almost as an afterthought, <a href="http://www.kottke.org/09/06/mta-selling-subway-station-naming-rights">makes a very valid point</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
    <p>But, without exception, station names are derived from nearby landmarks: streets, airports, schools, stadiums, squares, parks, etc.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>He's spot-on. This is a precedent well-ingrained in the minds of frequent visitors and residents of New York City. You'd like to go to Rockefeller Center? The World Trade Center? Broadway? Oh, all right, there's a subway stop for that. You'd like to go to Barclays? Sure, head to the Barclays stop in Brooklyn, then either recalibrate and head to the financial district in Manhattan, or hail a cab, head to JFK and fly to London. See the problem here? For over a hundred years, the transit system has <em>just made sense</em>. And, especially for the casual visitor, mnemonic stop names are extremely important.</p>
<p>Another issue, albeit with far less financial incentive, is historically motivated. There's something thrilling about seeing names like Atlantic Avenue, Broadway, Canal Street, and 23rd Street go whizzing by. These stops are as iconic as Route 66, Wrigley Field, or Norman Rockwell. It will be sad to see them go <a href="http://sports.yahoo.com/mlb/blog/big_league_stew/post/Hate-corporate-stadium-names-Use-this-program?urn=mlb,69167">the way of the sports stadium</a>.</p>
<p>And this is a perfect context to send you away to check out <a href="http://designnotes.info/?p=1805">this little piece of design idiocy</a>, also presented to you by the MTA.</p>