---
layout: blog_single
title: On Time’s Terrible Writing
category: blog
permalink: /blog/on_times_terrible_writing
shortUrl: http://jpcody.in/4
---
<p>Recently, I had the misfortune of reading <a href="http://www.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1899804,00.html">What Will the World Do With More Search Engines?</a>, an online article from <em>Time Magazine</em>, written by Douglas A. McIntyre. I bookmarked it, feeling something should be done or said about the state of journalism online. A couple weeks later, this is both the time and place for that. In order for you to get the full effect of my commentary, as well as for a good laugh, you should go ahead and <a href="http://www.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1899804,00.html">read the article</a>. I'll wait here.</p>
<h3>Done? Great. Let's continue...</h3>
<p>I considered going line-by-line at this article. But honestly, we'd be here for far, far too long. And if you had the patience for reading something longer, you'd have your nose in a literary magazine or, you know, a book. So let's look at a few quick problems that are indicative of one larger problem.</p>
<p><strong>The style.</strong> It's journalism. You don't need to be <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Foster_Wallace">David Foster Wallace</a> or <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_safran_foer">Jonathan Safran Foer</a>. But you're paid not to be a complete bore. This article's first three sentences read with the same rhythm as my near-deaf grandmother trying to find the right clapping cadence to <em>Amazing Grace</em>. It didn't get better. By the end of the article, it had all the smoothness of a case of the hiccups in the middle of a seizure.</p>
<p><strong>The research.</strong> All right, last time I said, "It's journalism." But I'm not totally convinced of that. The article dismissively explains the marketing strategies of Google's smaller search engine competitors and slips in the faux-statistic that there are 500,000 "search products" available&mdash; all in three sentences. If you listen closely, you can hear McIntyre saying "Ah, screw it." before he laments, "That figure seems high, but it is impossible to disprove." regarding the latter statistic. Overall, there's not a morsel of interesting journalism in the entire piece.</p>
<p><strong>The banalities.</strong> Wow, they really slip some stinkers in there. Exhibit A: "Loyalty is not always a by-product of function, though function often creates loyalty." Exhibit B: "Good is so excellent that it is not good anymore." I rest my case. Not that the insights are, well, insightful in the first place, but the way they are stated makes me feel like I've heard them my entire life. Apparently Mr. McIntyre didn't get the memo that BS at least needs to be <em>interesting to read</em>.</p>
<p>And although it doesn't necessarily fit in any above category, I would be remiss not to mention what goes down in paragraph six. Without any transition whatsoever, McIntyre takes us from discussing search engines, into a metaphor of airplane altitude, then to discussing chip manufacturers. I do have to give credit for finding the perfect climax to the absurdity that came before. It almost felt <strong>right</strong> just how little sense this made.</p>
<h3>Here's the rub.</h3>
<p>I'm not faulting Douglas A. McIntyre for the broad gap between the respectability of his name and his writing. I trust he is a better writer than he showed in this article, quite frankly, because I don't believe it's possible to be paid for writing so poorly. I'm faulting <em>Time</em>.</p>
<p>Like so many of the other print dinosaurs, they just don't get it. They still think that the internet is made of a bunch of fat kids sitting in their parents' basements eating salt and vinegar potato chips. Somewhere in their system of hiring, vetting, editing, and publishing, they said these words: "It's all right. It's just the internet." And they hit "publish" on a big, steaming pile of crap.</p>
<p>So here's a bit of advice for you, <em>Time</em>. Other endangered corporations, you can listen as well. <strong>Just because it's the internet, doesn't mean it can suck.</strong> If anything, it has to suck less. If you wouldn't publish it in print, don't publish it online. If you would publish it in print, consider publishing it online, but only if it fits. I know you're not as stupid as you're acting, so please. Just stop.</p>