---
layout: blog_single
title: Gruber’s WWDC Predictions
category: blog
permalink: blog/wwdc_predictions
shortUrl: http://jpcody.in/2
---
<p>There's pretty much only one person I listen to when it comes to Apple predictions. Jon Gruber of <a href="http://www.daringfireball.net">Daring Fireball</a>. And here's a bit of what he has to say about new iPhones tomorrow:</p>
<blockquote>
    <p>I expect Apple to announce updated iPhones with significantly faster processors, twice the RAM, and twice the storage. I expected prices to remain the same as the current lineup: $199/299 for 16/32 GB, respectively. The video camera is going to be a major selling point.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>He also says that his hunch is that iPhone 3 will carry the moniker <em>iPhone 3GS</em>. I call shenanigans here. It's been a long, long time since Apple has used any sort of acronym system in their naming. Nor do they append letters for the heck of it in the mold of PCs or luxury cars. My money is on leaving the iPhone 3G as a lower entry-point and adding the iPhone 3G Video. But tomorrow will tell.</p>
<p>And Gruber has bad news regarding Snow Leopard:</p>
<blockquote>
    <p>But while I am convinced that “Marble” [a potential new OS X user interface] is a real design project at Apple, I no longer believe it is slated for Snow Leopard. A new visual appearance isn’t something Apple can spring on third-party developers at the last moment. If they plan to ship Snow Leopard soon — say, by the end of August — that just isn’t enough time to allow developers to update their software to look good under a new UI theme.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Sad news. He's got even more details, so make sure to <a href="http://daringfireball.net/2009/06/wwdc_2009_predictions">read his article</a>.</p>